Asian Chilli Garlic Prawns (Shrimp)
Recipe video above. Juicy prawns / shrimp in a sweet sticky, spicy, garlicky sauce. A quick dinner that tastes like a homemade Chilli Jam stir fry you get at modern Thai restaurants! Spice level - this is quite spicy!
Course: DinnerCuisine: Asian, ThaiKeyword: Asian Chilli Garlic Shrimp, Chilli Garlic Prawns, Prawn recipe Servings: 1 - 4 people Calories: 410cal Author: Nagi | RecipeTin Eats
Ingredients
166.67g / 0.33 lb prawns / shrimp, raw, , peeled and deveined (Note 1)
0.5 tbsp vegetable oil (or canola)
0.33 tsp sesame oil , toasted (Note 2)
1 garlic cloves , very finely minced
0.67 tsp ginger , grated or finely chopped (can be omitted)
0.33 tsp chilli flakes* (Note 3)
0.17 cup (41.67 ml) water
1 tbsp Sriracha (Note 4)
0.67 tsp soy sauce , light or all purpose (Note 5)
1 tbsp brown sugar (sub with white)
Garnish (optional)
Sesame seeds
Green onions , finely sliced
Red chillies , finely sliced or chopped
Instructions
Heat oil in a large skillet over high heat. Add half the prawns and sear for about 45 seconds on each side until golden, then remove into bowl. Repeat.
Remove skillet from stove to cool down slightly, turn down to medium.
Return skillet to stove, heat sesame oil. 
Add garlic, ginger and chilli flakes. Cook until garlic turns golden.
Add water, then Sriracha, soy sauce and sugar, Stir, increase heat to medium high, and let it simmer for 3 minutes or until the sauce starts to thicken to a thin syrup consistency.
Return prawns into skillet and toss to coat in sauce and reheat, and cook for 1 - 2 minutes until sauce is reduced and coats the prawns nicely.
Garnish with sesame seeds, fresh chilli and shallots if desired. Serve with rice to soak up the awesome sauce! (Low carb, low cal option, try Cauliflower Rice) Side salad suggestions in post.
Notes
?SPICINESS - Adjust spiciness to taste with chilli flakes not Sriracha because the sauce needs the vinegar in the Sriracha.
NON SPICY version- skip the chilli flakes and sriracha, add 2 tbsp ketchup + 1 tbsp rice vinegar (or even cider vinegar!) + 1 tbsp Shaoxing wine (Chinese cooking wine) OR Mirin (reduce sugar by 0.5 tbsp) OR 2 tbsp chicken broth low sodium. Yes we need all these to make up for skipping the sriracha!
1. Prawns/shrimp - if using frozen (which I do), thaw completely and pat with paper towels to remove excess water. The prawns are raw, they might look cooked because they're a pink variety!
2. Toasted Sesame Oil is brown and has a stronger sesame flavour than untoasted sesame oil which is yellow. Here in Australia, toasted is the norm - it is harder to find untoasted. Will work fine with untoasted sesame oil, just slightly less sesame flavour!
3. Chilli flakes - also known as Red Pepper Flakes. You could also use a jar of minced chilli or chilli paste but do not try to saute it with the garlic because it will spit everywhere! Stir it in when you add the water. 
4. Sriracha is an Asian chilli sauce that is made with more than just chilli, it has flavourings. It is now common in most supermarkets in Australia, US, Canada and UK. Here is the one I use from Woolworths. 
SUBS: Another hot or chilli sauce with a similar consistency (a ketchup thickness). For a thinner stronger hot sauce like Franks, I'd probably use half Franks, half ketchup then add more Franks after tasting the sauce once reduced. :)
5. How to tell if prawns are cooked: Raw prawns hang straight by the trail, perfectly cooked prawns form a "C" and overcooked prawns will curl into a tight "O". Overcooked prawns have a rubbery texture and are not nice - so don't do it! :)
6. Nutrition per serving, assuming 3 servings. I think this makes enough for 3 as a meal, though can stretch to 4.
Nutrition
Serving: 194g | Calories: 410cal | Carbohydrates: 20g | Protein: 52g | Fat: 12g | Saturated Fat: 6g | Cholesterol: 630mg | Sodium: 2802mg | Potassium: 270mg | Sugar: 17g | Vitamin A: 30IU | Vitamin C: 26.2mg | Calcium: 386mg | Iron: 5.7mg